# Solar-Energy-Calculator-Tool-for-Building-Facades
This is an ArcScene add-on tool for calculating solar energy on building facades in city sclae. The tool calculate incident solar radiation based on two input feature: building footprint polygon and a Digital Terrain Model (DTM) or Digital Surface Model (DSM). The outputs on the other hand are 3D point feature (points on building façade representing certain area of the wall), 2D line feature representing single facade of building and 3D polygon feature representing the total facade area of building. 

## Software Requirements
This tool has been developed using VB.NET as an add-on for ArcGIS 10 or above. Since the outputs of the tool are 3D, ArcScene has been chosen as a target platform for the implementation of the tool. The ArcObjects (set of platform-independent software components of ArcGIS, written in C++) has been used extensively for the development of the tool.

## Installation
Please copy the directory "Help" to C:\. Double click on the "Multipatch solar radiation" ersi addin file and follow the instruction. After installation open the ArcScene then go to Customize>Add-in Manager>customize>Commands>Add-In Controls and drag the "Multipatch Solar Radiation" from commands box to somewhere in the ArcScene menu bars.

## Description of the GUI
A snap shot of the tool GUI is given in the following figure. Rectangles with red and green colour shows the initial (red rectangle) and extended interface (green rectangles) of the tool. The initial GUI (red rec-tangle area) is shown once the user clicks on the specified button on the ArcScene GUI. The initial GUI has options that must be fulfilled to run the tool. The user has to mention at least the input features, minimum one output feature and the time dura-tion for which the insolation would be calculated. All these inputs and parameter can be set by the initial GUI area. The green rectangle area just below the red rectangle is an ex-tended optional area of the tool GUI which can be activated by clicking on the “<<Other optional settings” label. Here the user can tune some default spatial, topographic or radia-tion parameters for calculating the insolation. Another extended area is the green rectangle area on the right hand side of red rectangle. This particular area is provided to give help for each option in the tool GUI and therefore could be activated and deactivated by the user by pressing the button “Show help” and “Hide help”. Detail description of each input, output and parameters in the tool GUIL are given in the following sections.
